template/AI_DOCS/code-conventions.md, before:

# Code Conventions & Standards

> **Shared documentation for all AI coding assistants**
>
> This file is referenced by multiple AI tool configurations. Changes here automatically apply to all tools that support file references.

## CRITICAL: No Decorative Emojis

**NEVER use decorative emojis in any output.**

### Prohibited (Decorative)
- ❌ Section markers: 🚀 🎯 🐳 🛠️ 📦 📚 🤖 🔧 📁 🎨 🔍 📝
- ❌ Callouts: 👋 📖 🎓 📧 👉 💡 ⚡ 🔥
- ❌ Celebrations: ✨ 🎉 ❤️ 💪 👏
- ❌ Status: 🚫 ⚠️ 📢 🎊

### Allowed (Functional Only)
- ✅ Checkboxes for completion status
- ❌ X-marks for failed/not-included items

### Applies To
- Code output (print statements, CLI messages, logs)
- Documentation (README, guides, docstrings, comments)
- Commit messages and PR descriptions
- Error messages and user-facing text
- File contents generated by code

### Rationale
- Professional appearance for enterprise use
- Universal compatibility across terminals/editors
- Better accessibility for screen readers
- Consistent with Atyantik branding standards
- Reduces visual clutter, improves readability

### Examples

**Code Output:**
```python
# ❌ WRONG
print("🚀 Starting process...")
print("✨ Success!")

# ✅ CORRECT
print("Starting process...")
print("Success!")
```

**Documentation:**
```markdown
❌ WRONG: ## 🎯 Quick Start
✅ CORRECT: ## Quick Start

❌ WRONG: **👋 Welcome!** Check out the docs 📖
✅ CORRECT: **Welcome!** Check out the docs
```

**Commit Messages:**
```bash
❌ WRONG: "✨ Add new feature 🚀"
✅ CORRECT: "Add user authentication feature"
```

## CRITICAL: AI-Generated Summaries Location

**ALWAYS store AI-generated summaries in `.ai-summary/` directory.**

### Rules
- All automated AI execution summaries MUST go in `.ai-summary/`
- This directory is in `.gitignore` - never commit AI summaries
- Examples: session summaries, execution logs, automated reports
- Keeps git history clean and focused on actual code changes

### Examples

**Correct:**
```bash
# AI writes summary to proper location
.ai-summary/session-2025-11-02.md
.ai-summary/execution-log-20251102-143022.md
```

**Wrong:**
```bash
# ❌ Never write summaries to root or other directories
./ai-summary.md
./session-notes.md
docs/ai-output.md
```

### Why This Matters
- Prevents accidental commits of AI-generated content
- Keeps repository professional and focused
- Separates code from AI tool artifacts
- Consistent across all AI assistants

## CRITICAL: Git Commits - No AI Co-Authoring

**NEVER add AI co-author attribution to git commits.**

### Rules
- Do NOT add "Co-Authored-By: Claude" or any AI assistant attribution
- Do NOT add "Generated with [AI Tool]" footers
- Keep commit messages professional and human-authored
- Commits should reflect the human developer's work, not AI involvement

### Examples

**Correct:**
```bash
git commit -m "Add user authentication feature

Implemented OAuth2 authentication with JWT tokens.
Added login, logout, and token refresh endpoints.
Includes comprehensive tests with 95% coverage."
```

**Wrong:**
```bash
# ❌ Never add AI attribution
git commit -m "Add user authentication feature

...

Generated with Claude Code.

Co-Authored-By: Claude <noreply@anthropic.com>"
```

### Why This Matters
- Commits should represent human intent and responsibility
- Professional git history without AI attribution
- Clear accountability for code changes
- Industry standard practice

## Quick Reference

| Aspect | Standard |
|--------|----------|
| **Line Length** | 88 characters (Black default) |
| **Quotes** | Double quotes preferred |
| **Type Hints** | Required on all functions (mypy strict) |
| **Docstrings** | Google style format |
| **Import Sorting** | isort with Black profile |
| **Python Version** | 3.11+ (3.13 recommended) |

## Code Formatting

### Black (Auto-formatter)

```bash
# Format all code
make format

# Format specific directory
uv run black src tests
```

**Standards:**
- Line length: 88 characters
- Double quotes for strings
- Trailing commas in multi-line structures
- No manual line breaks (Black decides)

### isort (Import Sorting)

```python
# ✅ Correct import order
from __future__ import annotations  # Future imports first

import json  # Standard library
import re
from typing import Any

import pytest  # Third-party packages
import requests

from {{ package_name }} import helper  # Local imports
from {{ package_name }}.utils import process_data
```

**Rules:**
- One import per line
- Alphabetically sorted within groups
- Blank line between groups
- No wildcard imports (`from module import *`)

## Type Hints (Mandatory)

### Function Signatures

```python
from __future__ import annotations  # For forward references

from typing import Any

def process_data(
    input_str: str,
    options: dict[str, Any] | None = None,
    max_length: int = 100,
) -> list[str]:
    """Process input data with options.

    Args:
        input_str: Input data to process
        options: Optional processing options
        max_length: Maximum length for output items

    Returns:
        List of processed strings
    """
    ...
```

### Modern Type Syntax (Python 3.10+)

```python
# ✅ Use new union syntax
def get_value(key: str) -> str | None:
    ...

# ❌ Old syntax (avoid)
from typing import Optional
def get_value(key: str) -> Optional[str]:
    ...

# ✅ Use built-in generics
def process_items(items: list[str]) -> dict[str, int]:
    ...

# ❌ Old syntax (avoid)
from typing import List, Dict
def process_items(items: List[str]) -> Dict[str, int]:
    ...
```

### Complex Types

```python
from typing import Any, Callable, Protocol

# Callable types
def apply_function(func: Callable[[int, int], int], a: int, b: int) -> int:
    return func(a, b)

# Protocol for structural typing
class HasName(Protocol):
    name: str

def greet(obj: HasName) -> str:
    return f"Hello, {obj.name}"

# TypedDict for structured dicts
from typing import TypedDict

class UserData(TypedDict):
    name: str
    age: int
    email: str | None
```

## Documentation

### Docstring Format (Google Style)

```python
def calculate_total(
    items: list[dict[str, Any]],
    tax_rate: float = 0.1,
    discount: float = 0.0,
) -> float:
    """Calculate total price with tax and discount.

    This function processes a list of items, applies tax and discount,
    and returns the final total price.

    Args:
        items: List of item dictionaries with 'price' key
        tax_rate: Tax rate as decimal (default 0.1 = 10%)
        discount: Discount as decimal (default 0.0 = no discount)

    Returns:
        Total price after tax and discount

    Raises:
        ValueError: If items is empty
        KeyError: If item missing 'price' key

    Example:
        >>> items = [{"name": "Book", "price": 10.00}]
        >>> calculate_total(items, tax_rate=0.1)
        11.00
    """
    if not items:
        raise ValueError("Items list cannot be empty")

    subtotal = sum(item["price"] for item in items)
    total = subtotal * (1 + tax_rate) * (1 - discount)
    return round(total, 2)
```

### Module Docstrings

```python
"""Module for user authentication and authorization.

This module provides functions for:
- User login/logout
- Password validation
- Token generation
- Permission checking

Typical usage example:

    from {{ package_name }}.auth import authenticate_user

    user = authenticate_user(username, password)
    if user:
        print(f"Welcome, {user.name}")
"""
```

### Class Docstrings

```python
class UserValidator:
    """Validates user data before creating user accounts.

    This class provides validation for:
    - Username format and uniqueness
    - Email format
    - Password strength
    - Age requirements

    Attributes:
        min_age: Minimum age for user registration
        password_min_length: Minimum password length

    Example:
        >>> validator = UserValidator(min_age=18)
        >>> validator.validate_username("john_doe")
        True
    """

    def __init__(self, min_age: int = 13) -> None:
        """Initialize validator with age requirement.

        Args:
            min_age: Minimum age for registration (default 13)
        """
        self.min_age = min_age
```

## Code Quality

### Linting Tools

#### Ruff (Fast Linter)

```bash
# Check all code
make lint

# Auto-fix issues
uv run ruff check --fix src tests

# Check specific rules
uv run ruff check src --select=E,F,B
```

**Enabled rules:**
- E/W (pycodestyle errors and warnings)
- F (pyflakes)
- B (flake8-bugbear)
- C4 (flake8-comprehensions)
- UP (pyupgrade)

#### Pylint (Comprehensive Linter)

```bash
# Check all code (must score 10/10)
uv run pylint src tests
```

**Key rules:**
- No unused variables
- No unused imports
- No duplicate code
- Consistent naming
- Maximum function complexity: 10

#### mypy (Type Checker)

```bash
# Check type hints
uv run mypy src tests
```

**Configuration (strict mode):**
- All functions must have type hints
- No implicit `Any` types
- No untyped function calls
- Check return values

### Pre-commit Hooks

```bash
# Install hooks
make install

# Run manually
make pre-commit
```

**Hooks run on commit:**
1. Trailing whitespace removal
2. YAML syntax check
3. Large file prevention
4. Ruff linting
5. Black formatting
6. isort import sorting
7. mypy type checking

## Project Structure

```
leadership-blog-generator/
├── src/
│   └── {{ package_name }}/
│       ├── __init__.py        # Package exports & version
│       ├── main.py            # CLI and main functionality
│       └── [modules].py       # Additional modules
├── tests/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── conftest.py            # Shared fixtures
│   └── test_*.py              # Test files mirror src structure
├── scripts/
│   └── ai_tools/              # AI context management tools
├── AI_DOCS/                   # Shared AI documentation
├── .ai-context/               # AI session files
├── pyproject.toml             # Project config & dependencies
├── Makefile                   # Development commands
└── README.md                  # User documentation
```

### Import Conventions

```python
# ✅ Correct - import from package name
from {{ package_name }} import function_name
from {{ package_name }}.module import ClassName

# ❌ Wrong - don't use src prefix
from src.{{ package_name }} import function_name
```

### Package Exports

```python
# File: src/{{ package_name }}/__init__.py

"""{{ project_name }} package."""

from .main import generate_blog
from .validators import validate_email, validate_phone

__version__ = "0.1.0"

__all__ = [
    "generate_blog",
    "validate_email",
    "validate_phone",
]
```

## Best Practices

### DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself)

```python
# ❌ Bad - duplicate logic
def process_user(name: str) -> str:
    return name.strip().lower().replace(" ", "_")

def process_product(name: str) -> str:
    return name.strip().lower().replace(" ", "_")

# ✅ Good - shared logic
def normalize_name(name: str) -> str:
    """Normalize name to lowercase with underscores."""
    return name.strip().lower().replace(" ", "_")

def process_user(name: str) -> str:
    """Process user name."""
    return normalize_name(name)

def process_product(name: str) -> str:
    """Process product name."""
    return normalize_name(name)
```

### Small, Focused Functions

```python
# ✅ Good - single responsibility
def read_file(path: str) -> str:
    """Read file contents."""
    with open(path) as f:
        return f.read()

def parse_config(content: str) -> dict[str, Any]:
    """Parse config from string."""
    return json.loads(content)

def load_config(path: str) -> dict[str, Any]:
    """Load and parse config file."""
    content = read_file(path)
    return parse_config(content)
```

### Explicit Over Implicit

```python
# ❌ Implicit behavior
def process(data, flag=True):
    if flag:
        return data.upper()
    return data

# ✅ Explicit, testable
def uppercase(data: str) -> str:
    """Convert data to uppercase."""
    return data.upper()

def process(data: str, transform: bool = True) -> str:
    """Process data with optional transformation.

    Args:
        data: Input data
        transform: Apply uppercase transformation

    Returns:
        Processed data
    """
    if transform:
        return uppercase(data)
    return data
```

### Error Handling

```python
# ✅ Good - specific exceptions
def divide(a: float, b: float) -> float:
    """Divide two numbers.

    Args:
        a: Numerator
        b: Denominator

    Returns:
        Result of division

    Raises:
        ValueError: If b is zero
    """
    if b == 0:
        raise ValueError("Cannot divide by zero")
    return a / b

# ❌ Bad - bare except
try:
    result = risky_operation()
except:  # Never do this!
    pass

# ✅ Good - specific exceptions
try:
    result = risky_operation()
except ValueError as e:
    logger.error(f"Invalid value: {e}")
    raise
except IOError as e:
    logger.error(f"IO error: {e}")
    raise
```

## Security Guidelines

### Never Commit Secrets

```python
# ❌ Bad - hardcoded secrets
API_KEY = "sk-1234567890abcdef"
DATABASE_URL = "postgresql://user:password@localhost/db"

# ✅ Good - environment variables
import os

API_KEY = os.environ["API_KEY"]
DATABASE_URL = os.environ["DATABASE_URL"]
```

### Input Validation

```python
# ✅ Always validate user input
def create_user(email: str, age: int) -> User:
    """Create new user with validation.

    Args:
        email: User email address
        age: User age

    Returns:
        Created user object

    Raises:
        ValueError: If email invalid or age < 0
    """
    if not validate_email(email):
        raise ValueError(f"Invalid email: {email}")

    if age < 0:
        raise ValueError(f"Invalid age: {age}")

    return User(email=email, age=age)
```

### SQL Injection Prevention

```python
# ❌ Bad - SQL injection risk
def get_user(user_id: str) -> User:
    query = f"SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = {user_id}"  # Dangerous!
    return db.execute(query)

# ✅ Good - parameterized queries
def get_user(user_id: int) -> User:
    query = "SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = ?"
    return db.execute(query, (user_id,))
```

## Naming Conventions

### Variables and Functions

```python
# snake_case for variables and functions
user_name = "John"
total_count = 100

def calculate_total_price(items: list[Item]) -> float:
    """Calculate total price."""
    ...
```

### Classes

```python
# PascalCase for classes
class UserValidator:
    """Validates user data."""
    ...

class EmailProcessor:
    """Processes email messages."""
    ...
```

### Constants

```python
# UPPER_SNAKE_CASE for constants
MAX_RETRIES = 3
DEFAULT_TIMEOUT = 30
API_BASE_URL = "https://api.example.com"
```

### Private/Internal

```python
class MyClass:
    """Example class with private members."""

    def __init__(self) -> None:
        """Initialize class."""
        self._internal_value = 0  # Single underscore for internal use
        self.__private_value = 0  # Double underscore for name mangling

    def public_method(self) -> int:
        """Public method."""
        return self._internal_value

    def _internal_method(self) -> None:
        """Internal method (not part of public API)."""
        ...
```

## Testing Conventions

See `@AI_DOCS/tdd-workflow.md` for comprehensive testing guidelines.

**Key points:**
- Test file names: `test_*.py`
- Test function names: `test_<description>`
- Test class names: `Test<FeatureName>`
- Use fixtures in `conftest.py` sparingly
- Prefer parametrized tests for multiple cases

## Coverage Standards

- **Minimum**: 80% (enforced)
- **Target**: 90%+
- **Ideal**: 100% for new code

```bash
# Check coverage
make coverage

# View HTML report
open htmlcov/index.html
```

## Development Workflow

1. **Before coding**: Run `uv run ai-start-task "Task description"`
2. **Write tests first**: Create `test_*.py` with failing tests
3. **Implement code**: Make tests pass
4. **Format**: `make format` (Black + isort)
5. **Lint**: `make lint` (Ruff + mypy + Pylint)
6. **Test**: `make test` (pytest with coverage)
7. **Quality check**: `make check` (all of the above)
8. **Commit**: Changes pass all checks
9. **Finish**: Run `uv run ai-finish-task --summary="..."`

## Configuration Files

All tool configurations are in `pyproject.toml`:

```toml
[tool.black]
line-length = 88
target-version = ["py311"]

[tool.isort]
profile = "black"

[tool.ruff]
line-length = 88
select = ["E", "F", "B", "C4", "UP"]

[tool.mypy]
strict = true
python_version = "3.11"

[tool.pylint.main]
fail-under = 10.0

[tool.pytest.ini_options]
testpaths = ["tests"]
addopts = "--cov=src --cov-report=term-missing --cov-fail-under=80"
```

## Additional Resources

- **TDD Workflow**: `@AI_DOCS/tdd-workflow.md`
- **AI Tools**: `@AI_DOCS/ai-tools.md`
- **Project Context**: `@AI_DOCS/project-context.md`

---

**Remember**: Follow these conventions consistently. Run `make check` before committing. Quality over quantity.

Commit message:

docs: document formatter expectations for AI agents

template/AI_DOCS/code-conventions.md, after:

# Code Conventions & Standards

> **Shared documentation for all AI coding assistants**
>
> This file is referenced by multiple AI tool configurations. Changes here automatically apply to all tools that support file references.

## CRITICAL: No Decorative Emojis

**NEVER use decorative emojis in any output.**

### Prohibited (Decorative)
- ❌ Section markers: 🚀 🎯 🐳 🛠️ 📦 📚 🤖 🔧 📁 🎨 🔍 📝
- ❌ Callouts: 👋 📖 🎓 📧 👉 💡 ⚡ 🔥
- ❌ Celebrations: ✨ 🎉 ❤️ 💪 👏
- ❌ Status: 🚫 ⚠️ 📢 🎊

### Allowed (Functional Only)
- ✅ Checkboxes for completion status
- ❌ X-marks for failed/not-included items

### Applies To
- Code output (print statements, CLI messages, logs)
- Documentation (README, guides, docstrings, comments)
- Commit messages and PR descriptions
- Error messages and user-facing text
- File contents generated by code

### Rationale
- Professional appearance for enterprise use
- Universal compatibility across terminals/editors
- Better accessibility for screen readers
- Consistent with Atyantik branding standards
- Reduces visual clutter, improves readability

### Examples

**Code Output:**
```python
# ❌ WRONG
print("🚀 Starting process...")
print("✨ Success!")

# ✅ CORRECT
print("Starting process...")
print("Success!")
```

**Documentation:**
```markdown
❌ WRONG: ## 🎯 Quick Start
✅ CORRECT: ## Quick Start

❌ WRONG: **👋 Welcome!** Check out the docs 📖
✅ CORRECT: **Welcome!** Check out the docs
```

**Commit Messages:**
```bash
❌ WRONG: "✨ Add new feature 🚀"
✅ CORRECT: "Add user authentication feature"
```

## CRITICAL: AI-Generated Summaries Location

**ALWAYS store AI-generated summaries in `.ai-summary/` directory.**

### Rules
- All automated AI execution summaries MUST go in `.ai-summary/`
- This directory is in `.gitignore` - never commit AI summaries
- Examples: session summaries, execution logs, automated reports
- Keeps git history clean and focused on actual code changes

### Examples

**Correct:**
```bash
# AI writes summary to proper location
.ai-summary/session-2025-11-02.md
.ai-summary/execution-log-20251102-143022.md
```

**Wrong:**
```bash
# ❌ Never write summaries to root or other directories
./ai-summary.md
./session-notes.md
docs/ai-output.md
```

### Why This Matters
- Prevents accidental commits of AI-generated content
- Keeps repository professional and focused
- Separates code from AI tool artifacts
- Consistent across all AI assistants

## CRITICAL: Git Commits - No AI Co-Authoring

**NEVER add AI co-author attribution to git commits.**

### Rules
- Do NOT add "Co-Authored-By: Claude" or any AI assistant attribution
- Do NOT add "Generated with [AI Tool]" footers
- Keep commit messages professional and human-authored
- Commits should reflect the human developer's work, not AI involvement

### Examples

**Correct:**
```bash
git commit -m "Add user authentication feature

Implemented OAuth2 authentication with JWT tokens.
Added login, logout, and token refresh endpoints.
Includes comprehensive tests with 95% coverage."
```

**Wrong:**
```bash
# ❌ Never add AI attribution
git commit -m "Add user authentication feature

...

Generated with Claude Code.

Co-Authored-By: Claude <noreply@anthropic.com>"
```

### Why This Matters
- Commits should represent human intent and responsibility
- Professional git history without AI attribution
- Clear accountability for code changes
- Industry standard practice

## Quick Reference

| Aspect | Standard |
|--------|----------|
| **Line Length** | 88 characters (Black default) |
| **Quotes** | Double quotes preferred |
| **Type Hints** | Required on all functions (mypy strict) |
| **Docstrings** | Google style format |
| **Import Sorting** | isort with Black profile |
| **Python Version** | 3.11+ (3.13 recommended) |

## Code Formatting

### Black (Auto-formatter)

```bash
# Format all code
make format

# Format specific directory
uv run black src tests
```

**Standards:**
- Line length: 88 characters
- Double quotes for strings
- Trailing commas in multi-line structures
- No manual line breaks (Black decides)

### Keep Black and Ruff in Agreement

- Treat Black as the layout authority, then use Ruff to verify.
- Avoid constructs the tools format differently. For example, instead of relying
  on multi-line `assert` calls wrapped in parentheses, assign the message to a
  local variable and pass that variable to `assert`.
- Run `pre-commit run --files …` (or `make format`) after edits so mismatches are
  caught before staging.
- If a formatter keeps rewriting the same lines, refactor the code so the intent
  is explicit instead of depending on formatter heuristics.

### isort (Import Sorting)

```python
# ✅ Correct import order
from __future__ import annotations  # Future imports first

import json  # Standard library
import re
from typing import Any

import pytest  # Third-party packages
import requests

from {{ package_name }} import helper  # Local imports
from {{ package_name }}.utils import process_data
```

**Rules:**
- One import per line
- Alphabetically sorted within groups
- Blank line between groups
- No wildcard imports (`from module import *`)

## Type Hints (Mandatory)

### Function Signatures

```python
from __future__ import annotations  # For forward references

from typing import Any

def process_data(
    input_str: str,
    options: dict[str, Any] | None = None,
    max_length: int = 100,
) -> list[str]:
    """Process input data with options.

    Args:
        input_str: Input data to process
        options: Optional processing options
        max_length: Maximum length for output items

    Returns:
        List of processed strings
    """
    ...
```

### Modern Type Syntax (Python 3.10+)

```python
# ✅ Use new union syntax
def get_value(key: str) -> str | None:
    ...

# ❌ Old syntax (avoid)
from typing import Optional
def get_value(key: str) -> Optional[str]:
    ...

# ✅ Use built-in generics
def process_items(items: list[str]) -> dict[str, int]:
    ...

# ❌ Old syntax (avoid)
from typing import List, Dict
def process_items(items: List[str]) -> Dict[str, int]:
    ...
```

### Complex Types

```python
from typing import Any, Callable, Protocol

# Callable types
def apply_function(func: Callable[[int, int], int], a: int, b: int) -> int:
    return func(a, b)

# Protocol for structural typing
class HasName(Protocol):
    name: str

def greet(obj: HasName) -> str:
    return f"Hello, {obj.name}"

# TypedDict for structured dicts
from typing import TypedDict

class UserData(TypedDict):
    name: str
    age: int
    email: str | None
```

## Documentation

### Docstring Format (Google Style)

```python
def calculate_total(
    items: list[dict[str, Any]],
    tax_rate: float = 0.1,
    discount: float = 0.0,
) -> float:
    """Calculate total price with tax and discount.

    This function processes a list of items, applies tax and discount,
    and returns the final total price.

    Args:
        items: List of item dictionaries with 'price' key
        tax_rate: Tax rate as decimal (default 0.1 = 10%)
        discount: Discount as decimal (default 0.0 = no discount)

    Returns:
        Total price after tax and discount

    Raises:
        ValueError: If items is empty
        KeyError: If item missing 'price' key

    Example:
        >>> items = [{"name": "Book", "price": 10.00}]
        >>> calculate_total(items, tax_rate=0.1)
        11.00
    """
    if not items:
        raise ValueError("Items list cannot be empty")

    subtotal = sum(item["price"] for item in items)
    total = subtotal * (1 + tax_rate) * (1 - discount)
    return round(total, 2)
```

### Module Docstrings

```python
"""Module for user authentication and authorization.

This module provides functions for:
- User login/logout
- Password validation
- Token generation
- Permission checking

Typical usage example:

    from {{ package_name }}.auth import authenticate_user

    user = authenticate_user(username, password)
    if user:
        print(f"Welcome, {user.name}")
"""
```

### Class Docstrings

```python
class UserValidator:
    """Validates user data before creating user accounts.

    This class provides validation for:
    - Username format and uniqueness
    - Email format
    - Password strength
    - Age requirements

    Attributes:
        min_age: Minimum age for user registration
        password_min_length: Minimum password length

    Example:
        >>> validator = UserValidator(min_age=18)
        >>> validator.validate_username("john_doe")
        True
    """

    def __init__(self, min_age: int = 13) -> None:
        """Initialize validator with age requirement.

        Args:
            min_age: Minimum age for registration (default 13)
        """
        self.min_age = min_age
```

## Code Quality

### Linting Tools

#### Ruff (Fast Linter)

```bash
# Check all code
make lint

# Auto-fix issues
uv run ruff check --fix src tests

# Check specific rules
uv run ruff check src --select=E,F,B
```

**Enabled rules:**
- E/W (pycodestyle errors and warnings)
- F (pyflakes)
- B (flake8-bugbear)
- C4 (flake8-comprehensions)
- UP (pyupgrade)

#### Pylint (Comprehensive Linter)

```bash
# Check all code (must score 10/10)
uv run pylint src tests
```

**Key rules:**
- No unused variables
- No unused imports
- No duplicate code
- Consistent naming
- Maximum function complexity: 10

#### mypy (Type Checker)

```bash
# Check type hints
uv run mypy src tests
```

**Configuration (strict mode):**
- All functions must have type hints
- No implicit `Any` types
- No untyped function calls
- Check return values

### Pre-commit Hooks

```bash
# Install hooks
make install

# Run manually
make pre-commit
```

**Hooks run on commit:**
1. Trailing whitespace removal
2. YAML syntax check
3. Large file prevention
4. Ruff linting
5. Black formatting
6. isort import sorting
7. mypy type checking

## Project Structure

```
leadership-blog-generator/
├── src/
│   └── {{ package_name }}/
│       ├── __init__.py        # Package exports & version
│       ├── main.py            # CLI and main functionality
│       └── [modules].py       # Additional modules
├── tests/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── conftest.py            # Shared fixtures
│   └── test_*.py              # Test files mirror src structure
├── scripts/
│   └── ai_tools/              # AI context management tools
├── AI_DOCS/                   # Shared AI documentation
├── .ai-context/               # AI session files
├── pyproject.toml             # Project config & dependencies
├── Makefile                   # Development commands
└── README.md                  # User documentation
```

### Import Conventions

```python
# ✅ Correct - import from package name
from {{ package_name }} import function_name
from {{ package_name }}.module import ClassName

# ❌ Wrong - don't use src prefix
from src.{{ package_name }} import function_name
```

### Package Exports

```python
# File: src/{{ package_name }}/__init__.py

"""{{ project_name }} package."""

from .main import generate_blog
from .validators import validate_email, validate_phone

__version__ = "0.1.0"

__all__ = [
    "generate_blog",
    "validate_email",
    "validate_phone",
]
```

## Best Practices

### DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself)

```python
# ❌ Bad - duplicate logic
def process_user(name: str) -> str:
    return name.strip().lower().replace(" ", "_")

def process_product(name: str) -> str:
    return name.strip().lower().replace(" ", "_")

# ✅ Good - shared logic
def normalize_name(name: str) -> str:
    """Normalize name to lowercase with underscores."""
    return name.strip().lower().replace(" ", "_")

def process_user(name: str) -> str:
    """Process user name."""
    return normalize_name(name)

def process_product(name: str) -> str:
    """Process product name."""
    return normalize_name(name)
```

### Small, Focused Functions

```python
# ✅ Good - single responsibility
def read_file(path: str) -> str:
    """Read file contents."""
    with open(path) as f:
        return f.read()

def parse_config(content: str) -> dict[str, Any]:
    """Parse config from string."""
    return json.loads(content)

def load_config(path: str) -> dict[str, Any]:
    """Load and parse config file."""
    content = read_file(path)
    return parse_config(content)
```

### Explicit Over Implicit

```python
# ❌ Implicit behavior
def process(data, flag=True):
    if flag:
        return data.upper()
    return data

# ✅ Explicit, testable
def uppercase(data: str) -> str:
    """Convert data to uppercase."""
    return data.upper()

def process(data: str, transform: bool = True) -> str:
    """Process data with optional transformation.

    Args:
        data: Input data
        transform: Apply uppercase transformation

    Returns:
        Processed data
    """
    if transform:
        return uppercase(data)
    return data
```

### Error Handling

```python
# ✅ Good - specific exceptions
def divide(a: float, b: float) -> float:
    """Divide two numbers.

    Args:
        a: Numerator
        b: Denominator

    Returns:
        Result of division

    Raises:
        ValueError: If b is zero
    """
    if b == 0:
        raise ValueError("Cannot divide by zero")
    return a / b

# ❌ Bad - bare except
try:
    result = risky_operation()
except:  # Never do this!
    pass

# ✅ Good - specific exceptions
try:
    result = risky_operation()
except ValueError as e:
    logger.error(f"Invalid value: {e}")
    raise
except IOError as e:
    logger.error(f"IO error: {e}")
    raise
```

## Security Guidelines

### Never Commit Secrets

```python
# ❌ Bad - hardcoded secrets
API_KEY = "sk-1234567890abcdef"
DATABASE_URL = "postgresql://user:password@localhost/db"

# ✅ Good - environment variables
import os

API_KEY = os.environ["API_KEY"]
DATABASE_URL = os.environ["DATABASE_URL"]
```

### Input Validation

```python
# ✅ Always validate user input
def create_user(email: str, age: int) -> User:
    """Create new user with validation.

    Args:
        email: User email address
        age: User age

    Returns:
        Created user object

    Raises:
        ValueError: If email invalid or age < 0
    """
    if not validate_email(email):
        raise ValueError(f"Invalid email: {email}")

    if age < 0:
        raise ValueError(f"Invalid age: {age}")

    return User(email=email, age=age)
```

### SQL Injection Prevention

```python
# ❌ Bad - SQL injection risk
def get_user(user_id: str) -> User:
    query = f"SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = {user_id}"  # Dangerous!
    return db.execute(query)

# ✅ Good - parameterized queries
def get_user(user_id: int) -> User:
    query = "SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = ?"
    return db.execute(query, (user_id,))
```

## Naming Conventions

### Variables and Functions

```python
# snake_case for variables and functions
user_name = "John"
total_count = 100

def calculate_total_price(items: list[Item]) -> float:
    """Calculate total price."""
    ...
```

### Classes

```python
# PascalCase for classes
class UserValidator:
    """Validates user data."""
    ...

class EmailProcessor:
    """Processes email messages."""
    ...
```

### Constants

```python
# UPPER_SNAKE_CASE for constants
MAX_RETRIES = 3
DEFAULT_TIMEOUT = 30
API_BASE_URL = "https://api.example.com"
```

### Private/Internal

```python
class MyClass:
    """Example class with private members."""

    def __init__(self) -> None:
        """Initialize class."""
        self._internal_value = 0  # Single underscore for internal use
        self.__private_value = 0  # Double underscore for name mangling

    def public_method(self) -> int:
        """Public method."""
        return self._internal_value

    def _internal_method(self) -> None:
        """Internal method (not part of public API)."""
        ...
```

## Testing Conventions

See `@AI_DOCS/tdd-workflow.md` for comprehensive testing guidelines.

**Key points:**
- Test file names: `test_*.py`
- Test function names: `test_<description>`
- Test class names: `Test<FeatureName>`
- Use fixtures in `conftest.py` sparingly
- Prefer parametrized tests for multiple cases

## Coverage Standards

- **Minimum**: 80% (enforced)
- **Target**: 90%+
- **Ideal**: 100% for new code

```bash
# Check coverage
make coverage

# View HTML report
open htmlcov/index.html
```

## Development Workflow

1. **Before coding**: Run `uv run ai-start-task "Task description"`
2. **Write tests first**: Create `test_*.py` with failing tests
3. **Implement code**: Make tests pass
4. **Format**: `make format` (Black + isort)
5. **Lint**: `make lint` (Ruff + mypy + Pylint)
6. **Test**: `make test` (pytest with coverage)
7. **Quality check**: `make check` (all of the above)
8. **Commit**: Changes pass all checks
9. **Finish**: Run `uv run ai-finish-task --summary="..."`

## Configuration Files

All tool configurations are in `pyproject.toml`:

```toml
[tool.black]
line-length = 88
target-version = ["py311"]

[tool.isort]
profile = "black"

[tool.ruff]
line-length = 88
select = ["E", "F", "B", "C4", "UP"]

[tool.mypy]
strict = true
python_version = "3.11"

[tool.pylint.main]
fail-under = 10.0

[tool.pytest.ini_options]
testpaths = ["tests"]
addopts = "--cov=src --cov-report=term-missing --cov-fail-under=80"
```

## Additional Resources

- **TDD Workflow**: `@AI_DOCS/tdd-workflow.md`
- **AI Tools**: `@AI_DOCS/ai-tools.md`
- **Project Context**: `@AI_DOCS/project-context.md`

---

**Remember**: Follow these conventions consistently. Run `make check` before committing. Quality over quantity.
